My name is Christopher Linn and
I work in the Core Services group
at Apple Software Engineering and
especially on Uniform Type Identifiers
and I also work on Launch Services.
This session is actually almost all
Uniform Type Identifiers with a little
bit about Launch Services in it.
Since that's what I know,
that's what I'm going to
talk about in my session.
Let me just give a quick overview of what
we are going to do during the next hour.
In the form of several
questions that I hope to answer.
I presume that,
I am making a presumption that
I can answer the question,
why are you here?
And I will give you several reasons
and that may answer some other
why are you here questions for you
that you may have been aware of.
And we'll go through,
kind of the design background
of uniform type identifiers.
And then go into some more
practicalities of how they are used
on Tiger and how you can use them
to make your applications better.
So, why are you here?
And I don't mean that in
the life-affirming answer
to everything question,
but why are you in this room right now?
One reason is that you want
to know about uniform type
identifiers because of Spotlight.
If you've been to any of the
Spotlight sessions earlier today,
you found out that uniform type
identifiers end up being used heavily
to categorize importers and search
results in the Spotlight framework.
So for example, if you look at the--
[Transcript missing]
compatible actions being
hooked up in the workflow.
Some other areas in TIGR are core image,
several places in the Carbon API,
such as Pasteboard, Translation,
Navigation,
as well as Launch Services itself using
uniform type identifiers for working
with file system objects and modeling
things like document binding preferences.
So these are all areas that uniform
type identifiers are now used in 10.4.
They were introduced in 10.3,
but used very sparingly
just in one specific area,
the Carbon Pasteboard.
But it's much more of
a foundation in 10.4,
and I hope that you'll see that it's
a very useful thing to understand
and a very powerful concept.
Let's just look back at the things I've
mentioned and see how they're layered.
Uniform Type Identifiers are very closely
related to the Launch Services database.
It's actually implemented
as part of Launch Services.
And then the higher levels of
Launch Services itself is a client
to the UTI API and database.
And then some of the other
things we've talked about:
Spotlight, pieces of Carbon,
the Core Image Framework sit above that
and make use of Launch Services and
Uniform Type Identifiers.
And then various applications
including perhaps your application
are clients of this technology.
So let me give a design
overview and then later on,
as I said,
we'll get into some more coding examples
and practicalities of using the API.
What do I mean by type identification?
Which is the term I'm going to
be talking about quite a bit.
It's a very general term and that makes
it a little bit hard to get a handle on.
So I brought up Dashboard in
the Thesaurus to get some ideas.
And it says some words in
the Thesaurus like Variety,
Class, Category.
Category I think is probably
the best synonym in this case.
It's a way of categorizing the objects
that we work with on our computers.
So what kinds of things
are we talking about?
What kinds of objects do we
want to categorize and identify?
Basically, it's things that the
user is working with,
and therefore,
they arrive at the doorstep
of your application,
and you've got to be able
to know what they are.
So of course,
it includes file system objects.
But I didn't call it file
system type identification.
I didn't call it data
type identification.
It's just type identification,
because files, folders, volumes,
that's one of the things we can
deal with using this technology.
There's also Pasteboard.
Not only does the Carbon Pasteboard API,
the modern one, the new one,
introduced on 10.3,
not only is it based on UTIs,
but actually,
the internal Pasteboard that goes between
Carbon and Cocoa apps is based on UTIs.
And we use this technology to be
able to map between the namespaces
of those two different Pasteboards.
as well as the old Carbon Scrap API.
We can also identify the types of things
that aren't necessarily really living
in the file system such as contacts,
people, information from address book,
email messages, calendar events.
All these things are searchable
by Spotlight and can be identified
by UniForm Type Identifiers.
And finally,
we can work with data arriving
over the Internet that,
for instance,
might be identified by a MIME type,
and we want to be able to link
that back to data of the same type,
save it to the file system,
and have the correct extension.
For instance, UTIs can help with that.
So I wanted to look at the grand arc
of history of type identification.
And in the beginning,
there was the file extension.
How he hates it.
But there's really not a whole lot we can
do to get rid of file extensions because
they're everywhere and they're used on
other platforms a lot and we've embraced
them on Mac OS X because we have to.
We have to interoperate
with other platforms.
And of course,
the problem with file name extensions is,
well, they're in the name.
We all hate that.
They're generally not very helpful,
not very explanatory.
So even though they're in the name,
you've got to be sort of an
expert to know what they mean.
And they're just a free for all.
There's lots of -- there can
be collisions and redundancy.
So along came the Mac and
Apple introduced the OS type
four character codes.
And this at least isn't in the name,
but there still can be collisions
and they're not -- text is a great
one because it's easy to understand,
but most actual OS types aren't.
They're not very verbose,
not very explanatory.
If you look at the code,
you don't -- as a developer,
you really don't know anything
about it just looking at it.
And then in the 90s
along came mime types.
And this was interesting
because you start to see,
first of all, it's a lot more verbose.
It's kind of plain English.
You can understand a lot
about what that means.
And it starts to kind of get at
the idea of types are kind of,
they kind of have an organization and
relationships that-- there's text types,
and there's audio types, and video types.
And this was a good idea.
And the hierarchy, however,
is very fixed and encoded
as part of the name.
So it can never change or evolve.
And pretty much what we ended up with
mime types is the application type
ends up being kind of a dumping ground.
And even worse than that,
even though there's a
bureaucracy for registering
mime types to avoid collisions,
in fact, there's a zillion mime types
out there that begin with x-dash
as the experimental namespace.
And that just kind of
sticks for all time.
So mime types aren't really the answer,
the ultimate answer,
to type identification
because of these problems.
And there's also,
as I have discovered working with
this over the past couple of years,
there's a lot of
redundancy in mime types.
There's the x-dash.
There's the non-x-dash
version of a given mime type.
And they're all sort of synonyms
for the same actual data type.
So we needed something to not only to be
better than this but to also interoperate
with all of this type identification
that was just sort of a big mess.
And so we came up with
Uniform Type Identifiers.
These are the key points about
what a Uniform Type Identifier is.
First of all, it's just a string and it
has a naming convention.
We reuse, again,
as we do in other places on the system,
the reverse DNS naming scheme.
And we do this solely to--well,
not solely,
but primarily to prevent collisions.
Now there's like a really,
really good chance that if
you declare your own UTI,
Uniform Type Identifier,
it's not gonna collide with
somebody else's name because it has
your company's name as a prefix.
It also is handy because it says
who the owner of the type is.
You know, looking at a UTI that--oh,
maybe you can contact somebody at
a particular company or at Apple to
find out about a particular UTI.
This allows us to make the system
freely extensible by third parties,
by everyone, all of you,
without any central registration
bureaucracy because of
the collision avoidance.
There's also sort of a gestalt of
using verbose names because when you
have a nice long string like that,
it's really easy for a developer to
look at that and understand what it is.
It's very descriptive.
[Transcript missing]
UTIs are an improvement over
other type identification systems,
we think.
But beyond being a string,
we've added a whole collection of
information associated with types
that I call type representation.
There's the idea of a type identifier,
but then there's also an
abstract notion of a type.
What is a type?
And I think of it as the association
between a unique identifier,
the UTI, and a bunch of properties
that describe the type.
So in the framework, given a UTI,
you can ask for various attributes,
such as the description,
which is a localized string.
So it's a human-readable description.
You can associate an iconic image,
an icon, with a particular type.
And then you can also have
any number of other mappings,
or tags as we call them, to other spaces,
such as extensions, MIME types,
and OS types.
And this is really powerful because
it allows you to abstract your app
away from having to know that there's
two different MIME types for MP3,
and there's two different OS types,
and you don't know which one to use.
And you don't want to have to keep
track of mapping all of those back
to a canonical type identifier.
And by associating all this
information right in the API,
it allows you to work at a
higher level in your application
by just thinking about,
OK, I'm working with MP3s,
and the system is going to help
me with all of the metadata that
is associated with the MP3 type.
But we didn't stop there.
We also wanted to formalize
this notion of a hierarchy.
And there's a bunch of ways in
which a hierarchy is pretty useful.
But let me just give an example.
The terminology we use is conformance.
We say that one type
conforms to a supertype.
So for instance, mp3 conforms to audio.
By the way, I didn't mention earlier the
public prefix is a special prefix
reserved by Apple for essentially
types that aren't owned by Apple.
They're more in the public domain,
if you will.
And so that's why you're seeing all
these strings that begin with public.
And that's just to unicify them.
Anyway, MP3 conforms to generic audio.
It's a kind of audio which in turn
conforms to audio-visual content.
And as you'll see later,
audio-visual content includes
other things like movies.
And then it gets even more generic
that there's something called
public.content which covers
all sort of document content,
if you will.
So this is just an introduction to
conformance and we'll now go into more
of the actual details of how a hierarchy,
how our hierarchy is organized.
And actually I'm going to go back and
say one more word about conformance.
Conformance, it's a little bit hard to
grasp the significance of it,
but it ends up being the most important
part of this technology because it
allows you to essentially with other
type systems you do string compares.
You're basically testing for equality.
Is this type something I understand?
So you compare a string that
comes in from the pasteboard,
say, to a type that you,
to a string constant that you know of.
And you do a whole bunch of compares and
you find out what type of data you have.
Well,
By replacing a string compare
with a conformance test,
it allows you to not have
to know about every type of
image out there in the world.
If you can, for instance, just say,
is this thing an image?
And if it is, then I'm going to give it
to QuickTime and see if
QuickTime can deal with it.
And that way,
you don't have to know about
everybody's image type in the universe.
You don't have to check
for all those types.
You do a very fast conformance
test of a high-level type,
and You can work with a
lot more data that way,
a lot more kinds of data.
So what we've done with UTIs is actually
allow just a multiple inheritance,
a multiple inheritance
graph of conformance.
So the reason we did this is that we came
up with two ways of looking at types.
There's a physical hierarchy,
which looks at a low level technical
view of something is implemented,
say on disk, as either a file or perhaps
a package or a folder.
And those are physical
representations on disk.
And then there's a functional hierarchy,
which is the user's view of a type.
And that is especially driven by
Spotlight and allows us to categorize
things in ways that users view an object,
a document, or a piece of data.
And for instance,
the users don't care whether it's
implemented as a package or a flat file,
but they care about what its
function is in their head.
And every type on the system
has a place in both the physical
and functional hierarchies.
So let's just look at the
very top of the hierarchy.
We have some good documentation
updated for Tiger on the WWDC website
that goes into the whole hierarchy.
But here just to give you a flavor of
kind of how it's organized at the top.
The physical hierarchy starts
with the root of public.item.
And we needed a root there because
mainly because of Spotlight has
some basic attributes associated
with everything that it can
index which includes two things.
Data which is what we call
flat files or data in memory.
Every file is a data stream so it
conforms to files are all public.data.
Or directories which only
exist on disk not in memory.
Directories can be further
divided into packages,
or plain folders and a volume is
just a flavor of a plain folder.
Something that the user can browse into.
And then from this,
these are pretty much abstract types.
Well, they're not completely abstract,
but often you'll have all the concrete
types are descend from this tree.
So all image formats, movie formats,
all conform to public.data, for example.
Now, there's a functional hierarchy
that divides the world differently.
And probably the most common
type-- there's not a single root
in the functional hierarchy,
but one of the most
common ones is content.
And this is all documents.
So documents are divided into basic text,
which may include marked
up text like HTML,
or images.
And there's another one,
audio-visual content,
which includes movies and audio.
And so again,
every type either plugs into this
part of the functional hierarchy,
or if it's not a document,
it might go into one of the
other categories we have,
which is messages for email or chat logs,
calendar events.
So all the specific iCal data
types conform to calendar event.
Contacts for address book
entries and Archives for
disk images and tar archives,
things like that.
And there's a few more,
but this is just to give you
an idea of how it's organized.
And again, this is spelled out in more
detail in the documentation.
So, um, sorry,
I'm going to go back again.
The, uh,
When we get to the demo phase,
you'll see how these functional
types are used to allow you to
The last part that I wanted to touch
on very quickly is something that you
run into fairly quickly when you start
working with this and that's something
called Dynamic Type Identifiers.
And this is to solve a particular
problem that when we look at any,
say, file on disk,
we don't necessarily -- we can't
necessarily map every extension
to a formal Type Identifier.
There's lots of things that aren't
declared yet or legacy things that will
never actually be formalized as UTIs.
And so we generate this funny
string when Launch Services,
for instance, is asked to say,
"What's the UTI for this file?" It will
-- instead of giving you no answer,
it gives you an answer that preserves
what we do know about this object.
And what we know about it
is that it has an extension,
foo.
And it's a file,
so it conforms to public.data.
So what you get back is this
funny string and it's an opaque
encoding of some information.
But you can pass it around
like any other UTI and you can
ask questions about it like,
"Okay, UTI,
what's your extension?" You get back foo.
You say, "Do you conform to
public.data?" You get back yes.
And so it's sort of a way to
degrade gracefully when we don't
have complete type information.
So don't be alarmed when
you see something like that
show up in your debugger.
All right, so now it's time to move on
to the practice portion of the
talk where I get into more.
details about the API and how to use it.
So there's sort of two key usage
patterns here that I think are
worth thinking about looking at.
The first one is just using
the existing types that we have
built in to Mac OS X Tiger.
And you can use all the existing types
we have to adopt new Carbon APIs,
work with the file system--
file system objects at a higher
level than just raw metadata.
Or if you want to run a
Spotlight query with known types,
you can do that.
And then the next level up that
we'll talk about a little bit
later is declaring new types,
extending the type system in your
application or your plug-in so that
you can more tightly integrate with key
features like Spotlight and Automator.
All right, so let's talk more about
working with existing types.
On Tiger, we have over 150 type
declarations built in.
[Transcript missing]
The core API is-- the whole
API is actually very simple.
The core of it is, as I mentioned,
being able to do a conformance test.
So UT type conforms to takes two
strings and it returns a Boolean.
And this is what Spotlight uses
and what Navigation Services uses,
the Pasteboard, in order to learn about a
type that it is working with.
You can also convert to other type
tag namespaces as we call them.
So, anything--any other kind of
identifier is called a tag.
It has a MIME or an--MIME type
or an extension or an OS type.
You can go back and forth mapping
between UTIs and those other spaces.
And then you can, of course,
fetch attributes like the
description or indirectly the
icon through icon services.
These functions are in uttype.h.
Now, going up to the next
layer to Launch Services,
the Launch Services API,
This is the layer at which you
can learn about or ask for the
UTI of file system objects.
UTIs are not stored in the file system.
We don't have any file system
currently that actually stores a
UTI directly next to a file as metadata.
But Launch Services wraps all of the
logic around looking at an object,
seeing if it's a directory or a file,
and what kind of metadata.
It looks at all the available metadata,
the extension, what have you,
and it can give you back
what we call a content type.
So Launch Services has this new
thing called named attributes where
you can ask for things by name such
as the content type and things that
you're already probably familiar
with with Launch Services such as
the display name and the kind string.
But for purposes of this talk,
the content type is the most interesting
because this gives you kind of
the unifying view of the types of
objects that are on the file system.
This is what Spotlight uses.
Whenever it's going to import
a file or a folder or whatever,
it turns to Launch Services and says,
"What's the content type of this
object?" And Launch Services gives
it back a string,
and then it uses that string
to find an importer for that.
And that way Spotlight doesn't
have to know that there are,
you know, four different ways of
identifying JPEG images on disk.
It just gets back a single string,
public.jpeg, and it finds an importer.
for that type.
Another new feature in
Launch Services in Tiger is using
UTIs to simplify your document claims.
So currently in your InfoP list,
when you open a bunch of document types,
you need to list out a
whole bunch of metadata,
right?
Back to the JPEG example,
you need to list all the extensions
for JPEG in your document claim,
and you need to list,
I think it's just one OS type.
And everyone has to go through the
same exercise of identifying the
redundant types of metadata that
identify a particular type in order to
claim that for your application or to
be able to open that kind of document.
And by using a new keyword in your
document types section of your plist,
the ls_item_content types,
and then it takes an array of UTIs,
you can make both-- well,
you can simplify your
Info.plist quite a bit.
So if you open JPEGs,
you just say public.jpeg.
You've got one entry,
and launch services takes care of
all the details of knowing that,
oh, this means that you can
handle extension JPG and JPEG,
as well as any other metadata
that identifies a JPEG.
It also leverages conformance,
because when you list a UTI in
your info.p list like this,
you're saying, you open anything that
conforms to this UTI.
And it's a much better way of doing
what we used to achieve with wildcards.
Basically, you can -- with wildcards,
you can say either you open a specific
type that you identify specific metadata,
or you say, I open everything.
And that allows a user to drop
anything on your application icon.
And even if you can't open it,
you're still going to get
launched and given the object.
And at that point, you have to figure out
what to do with it.
If you do something high level,
like in this example, claim public.data,
then what happens is
that -- what that means,
what public.data means
is files in this context.
Because files are all data streams.
And you're saying, well,
what's the point of this?
And you're saying,
I want to be able to drop
any kind of file on my icon,
but not a folder and not a volume,
not an alias, for example.
It allows the user experience to be
much better because then in the finder,
the feedback for dragging is much more
precise about what kinds of things you
want to be able to open in your app.
And now is a good time to do a
demo to show some of these concepts
that I've been talking about.
So if we can switch over.
I was looking--can we switch to demo?
[Transcript missing]
The code was available for and which did
some interesting things like just maybe
open some different kinds of documents,
something more than just text.
I also wanted a Carbon app
because right now Carbon has a
little bit tighter integration
with this stuff than Cocoa does.
Cocoa, you can of course use the
C APIs for Uniform Type Identifiers,
but it's not currently integrated
into the Cocoa Objective C APIs.
But I thought about simple text,
Carbon app,
and I remembered vaguely that it
sometimes displayed more than just text.
And so I thought I would try
dropping an image onto simple
text and see what it did.
And this document is too large.
And I thought, oh,
it doesn't open images.
I guess I was wrong.
But I went and looked at
source code and I thought,
great, now I have to debug simple text.
And it must have some sort of lame size
check because it thinks it's a text file.
And as I debugged it,
I realized the only problem is that
it doesn't know that this is an image
because simple text was never updated
to know anything about extensions.
And so in this case,
this is a file that has an extension,
but it doesn't have any file
type code associated with it.
So simple text actually has
no idea that it's a JPEG file.
And the same thing happened
when I dropped a movie on.
This is too large.
So what can we do about this?
And, you know,
we can go and add a whole bunch of
extensions to the list of what JPEGs are.
And we can add a JPEG pin open.
But can we make it any simpler and not
have to know so much about file metadata?
This is a little bit large.
I know it's very readable.
It would be even readable
if it was larger,
but I won't have enough room.
Is that somewhat readable?
No.
Yeah, the front row.
Okay.
All right.
My bad.
We'll just,
we'll go with your preference.
[Transcript missing]
somewhat cryptically
determined window type OR open.
I love these OR functions.
Depending on what I tell you to do,
do it.
And this is responsible for
figuring out what things are.
And it's all OS type-based.
And it tries to figure out-- it
builds up lists of image types
and movie types and text types.
And it turns out when you
go look at these functions,
they're just hard-coded
lists of OS types.
And they're not even very complete
compared to what QuickTime can do
as far as importing images movies.
So these aren't very useful,
and especially if there's no OS type
on the file that we're trying to open.
So what I did was I put
my code over here.
And I'm just going to
make a few changes here.
I want to work with the UTI.
What happens in this function is an
FSRef is passed in to the function
and we have to figure out what it is.
So we want to ask for its content
type from Launch Services.
So I have a CFString variable
there and I'm going to...
"Place this if clause with something
that basically asks for the content type.
Now see,
you have to deal with the wrapping
now because you wanted the big font."
There it is.
We LS copy item attribute,
we get back a CFString in
the content type,
and then we can do
conformance tests on that.
So I'm going to do first,
I'm going to say,
does it conform to image, UT type image?
And if it is an image,
then I'm going to continue doing this
little thing that simple text does,
where it asks QuickTime if
there is an importer available
for this kind of image.
And the only problem with trying to do
that is that QuickTime is looking for,
in this case,
the type is the OS type or the
file type code of the file.
And we know that in some cases,
in this case, we don't have one.
And we need one.
So we can get one from the
Uniform Type Identifier API.
Because we have the content type now.
And let's go paste this in.
I put it in the wrong place.
Okay.
So, we're going to get back
from this function,
we're going to get back the
OS type or the file code,
the type code as a CFString.
And then we use a utility function to
actually turn it into an actual OS type
data type and that happens right here.
And we release the CFString.
And then we can,
"We can pass that type that we get
back into QuickTime and even though
the file doesn't have a file type,
we can get back an importer
that QuickTime can provide.
And if we get one of those back,
then we know that in simple text terms,
it's a picked window."
[Transcript missing]
So what I've added is one
more conformance test.
I just say, "Okay,
does the content type of the file
conform to movie?" And if so,
then let's call it a movie
file or a movie window.
And that means later on,
Simple Text will try to create
a movie controller for that.
So I'm going to go ahead and build that.
and I are going to go ahead
and start the session.
Let's see what happens.
Didn't work.
Is that the right app?
It is the right app,
but... It's still running.
Yeah, that's exactly the problem.
I told myself a million times,
"Quit the app." Who said that?
Who said it's still running?
Thank you.
But you were wrong.
Yeah, well it's running again
because I just... Alright,
now I'm getting too much advice.
[Transcript missing]
Now it's rebuilding everything
because I changed where it builds to.
Get rid of that evil window.
Still running.
[Transcript missing]
What?
Yeah, that's not a bad idea.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
Now, this should just work.
No, I dragged it to the wrong place.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And now I can do the world premiere of
my 10-year-old daughter's clay animation.
I only have one running.
I don't want this one anymore.
And next problem.
I went and looked at the open
panel and if we go into our...
[Transcript missing]
All we need to do is
look for the open panel.
Open File Dialog.
This is what puts up the Open Panel.
And it's using the old style
Nav Services filtering.
So I'm going to get rid of the thing
that allocates that special handle
that has all the OS types in it.
And we're not going to pass it in anymore
to the Nav Create Get File Dialog.
And we're certainly not going
to dispose of the handle when
we're done because there is none.
And instead we're going to
just add this little bit.
If we created the dialogue correctly,
Then the next thing we're going
to do is create an array of UTIs
that we want NAV to filter by.
In this case, text, image, and movie.
And we're saying anything that
conforms to one of these base types,
I want you to enable
in the File Open Panel.
You probably thought I wasn't
going to remember to quit.
Let's build.
"We've built.
Let's run it.
Open.
and all of my documents are now enabled.
Now I've done all this.
I've made SimpleText extension aware
without having to use any extensions.
Isn't that lovely?
If you hate extensions,
then you don't have to use
them to interoperate with them.
10.4.
This is supported on 10.4.
The last thing I was going to do was make
a quick change to the Info P List because
there was this other annoying problem.
Let's see.
I got to get it back.
There we go.
I need it in the doc.
There was this other annoying problem
that now we can-- if you noticed before,
even though I couldn't
open this file before,
it would still highlight.
And in fact, you can drag pretty much
anything down to simple text,
and it will try to open it.
You can drop a folder on it.
And it says,
it may be in use by someone else.
Now we can fix that error message,
but what we really want to do is
just have proper feedback and not
highlight the application icon at all.
You can even drop a volume on there.
And the reason is because the Info.plist,
if you look at all of
these document types,
it's got all the specific
metadata that it wants to claim.
Down at the bottom, though, it says,
let's claim four stars,
which is the OS type for wildcard claims.
And that means just drop anything on me.
And what we really want to do
is be more specific about what
simple text can actually do.
So we use this.
We use this new key,
LS item content types,
which is how to claim UTIs.
And we replace the wildcard
with these same three UTIs,
text, image, and movie.
And--
Build.
Build very quickly because it
was just an IP list change.
And let's hide this.
Now we can still drag images down,
movies, but we shouldn't be able to
drag say volumes anymore.
No highlighting on the icon.
Same with folders.
And text opens just fine still.
All right,
so that was just three simple changes to
simple text that enabled it to actually
do what it can do and not be blocked
by some poor management of metadata.
Okay, we can go back to slides.
So now I want to turn to more advanced
uses of UTIs and that involves extending
the system by declaring your own types.
And it's a cooperative system.
Anyone can add to it and
it's a shared database of
information of type knowledge,
if you will,
that is available to all applications.
It's shared across all the
processes that are running in
the current user's context.
And since it needs to be known
even when your app isn't running,
we actually declare
types in your Info.plist.
And this allows, for instance,
the finder to know about your
types before your app is even run.
Types can be declared currently
in three kinds of bundles:
Applications, Spotlight Importers,
and Automator Action Bundles.
We limit it to these three because
these are the ones that actually
need it and there's some scaling
issues that we haven't dealt with yet.
So these are the places where
you can declare a new type.
There's two ways to declare a type.
As I said, it happens in your Info.plist,
so it's just a little bit of XML.
But there's two styles:
there's exported types
and imported types.
And exported types is how you
declare something that you own,
a format or type that you control.
However, you might depend on some type
that's not built into the system,
it's from some third party,
and you know how the third party
declares it in their product,
but you can't count on that product
being installed on the system.
So you just add it to your Info.plist and
you call it "imported." And that
way we know it's kind of secondary.
We know that we'll use this imported
declaration if there isn't an equivalent
one for the same UTI that's exported.
And that way your product
continues to work.
But if the UTI is not exported,
it's not going to be used.
So the other product is installed,
they are the de facto,
the master copy of the declaration,
if you will.
And so it's just two slightly
different ways to declare a type.
And also by doing it in the InfoP-List,
it allows us to leverage the
bundle format to do resource
loading such as the description
which can be a localized string.
It's loaded from bundle
resources as well as the icon.
So this is just an
example type declaration.
It looks something like a
document type declaration.
You've got the UT exported type
declarations key up at the top,
and then what follows
is an array of types,
each its own little dictionary,
and some of the most important keys
in there are the type identifier,
which is the actual UTI,
the single UTI or an array
of UTIs that it conforms to.
That's really important.
I encourage you to read through
the documentation about conformance
and familiarize yourself with the
abstract hierarchy so that you
can get your conformance right
to work really well with Spotlight.
There's the description,
which is the human readable string.
And then there's yet another
dictionary which lists out all of the,
what we call, tags,
which are the extensions and the
MIME types that you-- and OS types
and NS pasteboard string types
that you want to map to this UTI.
And once you put that
in your info.p list,
then all you have to do is get it
registered with Launch Services and
it becomes active on the system.
Registering with Launch Services is,
especially in the past
but still a little bit,
it's a little bit of a black art,
but you need to be registered
on the system for your bundle
identifier to be findable,
in order for your document bindings
to work and your icons to show up,
and now for your type declarations
to also be active on the system.
For applications,
it pretty much happens automatically,
either by installing
with the Apple installer,
or if you're just browsing around the
Finder or you launch an application,
we notice it and we
register your info.p list.
For Spotlight importers
and Automator plug-ins,
it's a little more complicated.
You can drag them into the
appropriate library folder,
like either the Spotlight folder.
Or the Automator folder inside
either /library or the library
in the user's home directory.
And at that point, they'll get noticed by
Spotlight right away,
because it's watching those folders.
It will also get noticed by
Automator when the app runs next.
If you have your own installer,
there is lsregister functions that were
available first in 10.3 to allow you
to register something right away after
you've installed it in the right place.
One note about debugging.
I get this question a lot,
that you change your InfoP list
and it doesn't have any effect.
Because you're just trying
to do something quick.
And I do it all the time myself.
You want to change an app in place.
You want to change its InfoP list
and not have to rebuild.
The problem is we don't
know it's changed.
We don't watch every InfoP list on
the disk to know that it's changed.
But if you edit an InfoP list and
then touch the mod date of the .app
bundle or the importer plug-in,
then we notice the next time, say,
we go to launch that app,
that it's changed.
And we will then go inside and read the
InfoP list again and re-register it.
So with apps, generally the best practice
is touch the mod date,
launch the app,
and you should be good to go.
Now you notice I didn't have to
do any of that with Xcode when
I was rebuilding SimpleText,
as long as I could find where
the hell SimpleText was.
And that was because Xcode will also
re-register your app after you build it.
And that brings us to the
Launch Services database.
This is more debugging info.
People often want to know where
the Launch Services database is,
and it's in /LibraryCaches,
and it begins with
com/AppleLaunchServices,
and the numbers that come after that,
you can probably reverse engineer
to figure out what they mean.
But if you really want to blow it away,
you can actually blow away
all of /LibraryCaches.
Some other components might
not like to hear me say that,
but that's the design
point of /LibraryCaches,
is that it's a cache.
It's all reconstructable,
so you can blow the whole thing away,
reboot,
and everything's supposed to get rebuilt.
And in fact, Launch Services,
the database, will get rebuilt when you
reboot in such a circumstance.
On Tiger,
actually every user has a separate
Launch Services database and
that's because we were getting a
little too much crosstalk between
having one shared database and
multiple users on the system.
and this is not the version of the
slides that I approved last night.
Oh well.
But in order to reset your
launch services database,
if you really want to,
you don't have to reboot.
There's easier ways.
And there's this tool which is
hidden away down in the launch
services framework because it's
not really a developer tool,
but I've talked about it enough
on mailing lists that I thought
I would just put it out there.
It's called lsregister.
And rather than give you the long path,
I would just suggest that you
use the find command in system
library frameworks to look for it.
That's a little bit easier
to remember than a long path.
And once you find it,
you can run it and do things
like the dash dump switch
which will give a long dump.
Set your terminal window to unlimited
scroll back because it will blow
out whatever you have currently.
And it's fairly readable dump of what's
in the launch services database and
all the document type claims and all of
the type declarations that are there.
And that can be useful for finding, say,
that, oh, yeah,
I have that old crummy version of my
app that I built two weeks ago and
it's still on the disk somewhere.
And launch services knows about it,
but I don't.
And that's why things
aren't working right.
So the dump is useful for that.
And what I suggest in that case is you
take that crappy old version of your app,
you put it in the trash,
and you empty the trash,
and it will get unregistered.
You can also start from scratch
by doing lsregister-kill-seed and
this will erase the database and
then rescan for apps just as if you
were booting for the first time.
You can also force a specific app
to get re-registered with the -f
switch which stands for force.
That way even if it's already registered,
it will force it to get registered again
even if the mod date hasn't changed.
So this is handy for avoiding
lots of hair pulling and teeth
gnashing and calling me bad
names and things like that.
I wanted to have one slide on some
of the new API in Launch Services.
We talked about named attributes
and getting the content type
with the display name a little
earlier but there's also a few new
versions of the LS open functions,
new ways to open things.
For one thing,
we have replaced the launch
application function which was
part of the process manager,
it's still supported
but we modernized it.
It's a little easier to use,
it's part of Launch Services and it
still returns a process serial number.
In fact,
all the new LS open functions will return
process serial numbers for the apps that
are used to handle either the app that
you're opening or the app that's used
to handle the document or the URL you're
We also have now functions for managing
user preferences both for URL Scheme
bindings and also for document bindings.
And we can do this for document bindings,
or if you will,
binding preferences for document
types because we have UTIs now.
It used to be that it was very complex
to do it because you could have a
different binding for extension JPG and
a different binding for JPEG and a
different binding for OS Type JPEG.
And we didn't really want that.
That's impossible for
the user to understand.
So instead,
we have an API which is centered around
UTIs and you have one binding for
Type JPEG and you have another binding
for Type TIFF and what have you.
And these allow you to inspect the
user preferences as well as set them.
And if you're going to set them,
I just encourage you to do it on the
user's behalf and not just slam things.
Thank you.
These new API are in these two
header files mentioned here.
The last topic I want to talk about
was drag and drop service invocation.
I just have a couple of minutes left,
but this is something that
you might not be aware of.
If you came to my talk last year,
you're aware of it,
but it's always worth showing it
again because it's a nice little
service that your app can offer
if it doesn't support it already.
If you look up in most applications,
you look up in the File menu,
there's a Services item.
And the contents of the Services submenu
change depending on what's selected in
the document window that is in front.
If it's text,
you get certain services available that
are provided by other applications.
So for instance,
Safari has a service that will do
a Google search on text selected.
Well, the Services menu is great and it's
brought over from Next Step days
and it does some really nice things,
but it's a little inconvenient.
And so we realized we had all the
technology available to integrate
it with drag and drop and make it
happen in the dock and really leverage
the dock as an always present,
always on top drag destination.
And rather than talk about this anymore,
I think I'll just show it to you.
So can I have the demo machine?
Demo one.
Prior to Tiger,
the only thing you could drag
down to the doc and drop onto
an application was document.
A lot of apps will
properly make links live,
URLs live.
But you still find yourself in a
lot of cases wanting to open a URL,
and you can't just click on it.
And now there's a pretty simple gesture.
If I can get the timing right.
Select something, grab it, drag it down.
It gets turned into a
get URL event and sent to
sent off to Safari.
Yeah, this is very natural stuff,
and Safari didn't have to
change to make this work.
We just added it to the
dock in the Launch Services.
You can grab some text.
I don't want to select that image,
though.
I'm going to go down here.
Grab some text.
I can go, say, to-- back to TextEdit.
I wanted to save this off to the side.
And--oh, you're thinking it didn't work.
Well, actually, it did.
It's just white.
This web page has to be white.
In fact, I can go to plain text.
And there we go.
There's the text back.
Again, that's using TextEdit's service
which opens a text selection
in a new untitled window.
Now I mentioned that you can
do Google searches with Safari.
And so let's say I want to learn
more about Siberian tigers.
I can select that, grab,
drag it down to Safari.
And since it's not a URL,
what Safari does instead is open
a new window with a Google search.
I can look for images.
And here's an image that I like.
Let me look at the full-size image here.
I like this because it looks like the
last photograph this guy ever took.
But this works even with images.
You can drag an image in Safari and let's
say you like that and you want to borrow
it for a while and import it into iPhoto.
You just drag it down to iPhoto,
it launches and it imports
the image into the library.
So this is just some very nice gestures,
very convenient, easier than copy/paste,
easier than using the service
menu up in the file menu.
So what do you need
to do to support this?
Well, if you already have services
advertised in your InfoP list,
then you probably already support it.
If you--oh, can we go back to the slides?
Sorry.
If you don't, then I encourage you
to read about services.
It's basically an NS Services entry in
your Info.plist and you can advertise
what types of data you act on.
In this case,
the services can send and return
data and the only kind that you can
invoke through the dock are send only,
the kind that don't return any data.
The way we implement it behind the
scenes is a new Apple event so that
we can just send an Apple event off to
your app and there's a default handler.
It's called the
Open Contents Apple Event.
You don't have to handle
the event directly.
You can if you want to,
but we have a default handler that
will actually just turn around,
take the data on the pasteboard or
put the data back onto the pasteboard
and call your service function.
So all you really have to do is
provide an NS Service and you'll
show up in both the Services menu
and you'll work with the dock.
So that's all I have to cover today.
The things I'd like you to
take home and think about are:
use uniform type identifiers,
use the ones that are
built into the system,
read the documentation,
and use them to simplify your app
and improve your user experience.
Extend the system to really
integrate tightly with
Tiger by declaring new types,
new UTIs.
Think about the new launch services APIs,
see if they solve any problems
you've been having with some
of the new options available.
And also, think about offering services
now that there are multiple
ways to use them on the system.
That's it.
Thank you very much for coming.
I'm for QA.
There's a-- By the way,
there's a-- The documentation
I mentioned is on the web.
Also, we're trying to get the final
version of simple text that I showed,
that code,
we're trying to get that up there too
so that you can take a look at that.